Now that you know the basics of using python as a calculator it's time to take your skills to the next
level.
And that's going to be done by creating variables in python. A variable is a letter or a set of letters
that is a place holder for a number and I'll show you what that means on the next slide and in a few
moments in Python.
In this video, you are also going to get to see how to print multiple answers in the same cell of code.
And if that doesn't really make sense yet what this means and why that's useful then don't worry.
This will all become clearer in a few moments.
Now first let me explain what I mean by variables in Python. You can use variables as placeholders
for numbers.
For example you can say that the variable x equals the number four.
So whenever you see X in an equation you simply replace that with four.
So for example x plus five equals nine.
And this statement is true because x equals four.
Likewise I can say X divided by two which really means four divided by two equals two.
Now in these very simple cases you can say that using a variable really isn't necessary.
And that's true for these very simple cases.
But as you move to more and more sophisticated and advanced applications and mathematics, variables are
going to become increasingly important.
OK.
So let's switch to Python and see how to create variables and assign them to be numbers
it's actually very simple and very straightforward.
All you do is type the letter that you want to use, the variable, and you say equals seven.
So now I can say X equals seven.
I'm gonna run this cell of code by pressing control enter.
Now notice that nothing happened.
This was a little bit different from the previous video where you saw that I implemented some equation
and the number,
the result of the equation, printed out below.
In this case I'm putting a complete assignment and a complete line of code here and there's nothing
to output.
So Python doesn't do anything but I can type x all by itself in a line like this.
And now Python runs this line of code and then it sees this line of code and says well I'm not setting
any X to be equal to anything so I'm just going to print out the value of x, which is seven of course
because that's what I specified.
Okay.
So now I'm going going to press shift enter to give me a new cell.
And now just like I showed in the slide you can use this variable in place of a number so I can say
X minus two.
Now I know that this is going to be five because seven minus two equals five.
And we confirm that in Python.
Now what if you don't like the number seven anymore. You've changed your mind about the number seven
and you want to set X equal to some other number.
No problem.
It's really really easy.
You just reassign the value of x to be in this case 10.
So now type X again.
And now we get X equals 10 and it gets even better than this because I can set X to be equal itself
plus some operation.
So I'm gonna say X equals X,
itself, minus let's say two times five.
Now if we look at the right hand side of this equation we see that X is Well initially it was seven
but then I reset it to be 10.
So this is gonna be ten minus two times five which is ten.
So now the new value of X should be equal to zero.
And now here's something interesting I can run this cell of code again and now X is going to be equal
to minus 10.
So when I first ran this line of code the value of X was changed to zero.
But now I ran it again and now X was zero.
So then this became zero minus 10.
So then the new value of X became zero minus ten which is minus 10 so this is for one variable x.
We can set multiple variables.
So I'm gonna say x equals 10 and Y equals 20.
So now I have two variables in the python workspace.
So now I'm gonna write X plus Y times Z.
Now this is interesting. I haven't yet defined any variables called Z or maybe call this letter Z.
Depending on which country you're from.
So let's see what happens if I try to use a variable that I haven't defined.
So we get an error message in Python and the error message.
In this case is very useful and informative error message.
It says the name z, so the variables z, is not defined.
Now this error message is actually really easy to fix.
We can create a new variable called Z and let's set it to be.
How about I know you're thinking I'm going to set it to be 30 but I'm going to do it to be 31.
Just to be a little bit different.
Okay.
And now we get six hundred and thirty.
There's one more thing I want to tell you about variables in this video
before moving on to the print function. So far in all these cases, I've been using single letters for
variables and that can be useful sometimes that's also consistent with how you would see variables used
in a typical math course.
But we can have more informative variables so I'm going to say for example let's say Mike equals ten and
how about... what's another good name...
How about Spike equals thirty four.
Now there is nothing different about Mike and Spike compared to X and Y.
There's still variables there's still place holders for these numbers.
They're just more informative. I can write Mike
plus Spike and that's going to give me forty four and this is really powerful because once you start
writing more complicated Python code you're going to want to use more informative names. So you can say
for example number of chocolate bars.
So this is a pretty informative variable name number of chocolate bars equals 10.
I hope that's not the number of chocolate bars you eat everyday that's a little bit unhealthy.
How about point five.
I think half of a chocolate bar per day is a pretty reasonable amount of chocolate.
Okay so I want to go back up to this cell here.
I specified x y and z so we found out that X plus Y times Z equals six hundred and thirty.
And I wonder what X minus Y times that is equal to now.
If you're just looking at this cell, looking at the code here, you might expect two numbers to print out
six hundred and thirty and then whatever this answer ends up being.
However when I run this cell by pressing control enter we see only one number
printing out. And that is minus six hundred and ten, which corresponds to this second piece of code here.
So in python, in these cells, the output here is the output of the final line of code in the cell.
Now if you want to see both of these you can use the print function. So to use the print function you
type
print and then in parentheses the answer that you want to print out.
So here I wrote print and now I press control enter and I get this 630 answer
printed out, and then I get this printed out because this is the last line this ends up being the output
of this cell.
So I can also put a print function here and then we see the numbers six hundred and thirty from this
line this line and six minus six hundred and ten from this line.
Now notice that this is a different use of the parentheses compared to using parentheses to group numbers
or variables, which I already introduced you to in a previous video.
This is sometimes called "overloading" in programming.
It means that we're using the same character, or the same operator, for multiple different functions.
And you have to know from context which is appropriate. Here are your two exercises for this video.
What you want to do is create these three variables x y and z.
Set them to be 7 so x equals 7 y equals minus 2 z equals 5.
And then you want to implement these two equations here.
So 3 x times the quantity 4 plus y and then minus Y minus X plus 3 over Z.
And this first equation will equal 42 which is a pretty neat number and this equation will equals zero.
So now you should pause the video, switch to Python on your own and implement these two exercises.
These two equations. Make sure you get the right answer and then you can come back to the video and watch
me solve these problems in Python.
So to start with I'm going to create the three variables so we need X equals seven, Y equals minus two,
and z equals five.
So the first equation was three X and then times something else so you might be initially tempted to
say three X times four plus y.
Now if you're writing out math in the way I showed in the slide or the way you would see in a textbook
the way you would write it on a piece of paper with a pencil it actually does look like this.
You don't have to put a multiplication operator in between the three and the X or in between the x and
the parentheses.
However, this is not the right way to do it in Python.
As you learned in the previous video.
So you need parentheses to indicate multiplication.
All right.
So that gives us an answer of forty two.
I'm actually going to print this out here because I want to put the next line of code directly under.
I'm going to say minus Y minus.
And then this was x plus three divided by Z.
And again if you wrote out something like this then.
Good job trying but this is unfortunately not really correct, because python is gonna associate three
divided by Z and then separately add that to X.
We need to tell Python explicitly that the X plus the three go together in the numerator of this fraction,
and that we do with parentheses and then we get a value of 0 which is the correct answer.
In this video you learned how to use variables in Python as place holders for numbers.
You can have variables be single letters like X or Y, or you can have them be longer more meaningful strings
like you know the number of chocolate bars.
And I also showed you in this video how to print out multiple answers in the same cell of code. In the
next video,
you're going to learn how to print out multiple answers that look really nice and nicer than the default
Python output.